
Dragging yourself or someone else onto a chair or bed will buckle them to it, immobilizing them. They can use the resist command to break loose though.  This will unbuckle them from the chair, they have to resist again to get out of the cuffs.  Any movement at all will reset this timer.
Where the space map levels connect is randomized every round, but are otherwise kept consistent within rounds. Remember that they are not necessarily bidirectional!
You can catch thrown items by toggling on your throw mode with an empty hand active.
To crack the safe in the vault, you must use a stethoscope on it.
You can climb onto a table by dragging yourself onto one. This takes time and drops the items in your hands on the table. 
You can drag other players onto yourself to open the strip menu, letting you remove their equipment or force them to wear something. Note that exosuits or helmets will block your access to the clothing beneath them, and that certain items take longer to strip or put on than others. These exosuits will also stop one alien facehugger, but they can put the helmet back up.
You can spray a fire extinguisher or fire a gun while floating through space to change your direction. Simply fire opposite to where you want to go.
You can change the control scheme by pressing tab. One is WASD, the other is the arrow keys. Keep in mind that hotkeys are also changed with this.
Most vending machines can be hacked to obtain some contraband items from them, and some can be fed with coins to gain access to premium items.
Firesuits and winter coats offer mild protection from the cold, allowing you to spend longer periods of time near breaches and space than if wearing nothing at all.
Glass shards can be welded to make glass, and metal rods can be welded to make metal. Ores can be welded too, but this takes a lot of fuel.
If you need to drag multiple people either to safety or to space, bring a locker over and stuff them all in before hauling them off. This can fit about three people. Please don't vore them.
You can grab someone by clicking on them with the grab intent, then upgrade the grab by clicking on the grab button in your active hand. An aggressive grab will allow you to place someone on a table by clicking on it, or throw them by toggling on throwing.
You can break computers by shooting at them, but you can't shoot through them.
Just the tip.
Holding alt and left clicking a tile will allow you to see its contents in the top right window pane, which is much faster than right clicking.
The resist button will allow you to resist out of handcuffs, being buckled to a chair or bed, and out of locked lockers. You don't have to click the button though, typing it into the chatbox works to!  Try Resisting when you're stuck!
You can move an item out of the way by dragging it and then clicking on an adjacent tile with an empty hand. You can also drag some items (like metal sheets and glass) over each other to stack them automatically!
You can recolor certain items like jumpsuits and gloves in washing machines by also throwing in a crayon.  You can also recolor the washing machine by dragging a corgi into it and turning it on!
Maintenance is full of equipment that is randomized every round. Look around and see if anything is worth using.
As the Captain, you are one of the highest priority targets on the station. Everything from revolutions, to nuclear operatives, to traitors that need to rob you of your pants or your life are things to worry about.  You probably shouldn't be ERPing.
As the Captain, always take the nuclear disk and pinpointer with you every shift. It's a good idea to give one of these to another head who you can trust with keeping it safe, such as the Head of Security.  Just make sure neither of you are ERPing, changelings can suck in more than one way.
As the Captain, you have absolute access and control over the station, but this does not mean that being a horrible person won't result in mutiny and a ban.  
As the Chief Medical Officer, your hypospray is like an instant injection syringe that can hold 30 units as opposed to the standard 15.  
As the Chief Medical Officer, coordinate and communicate with your doctors, chemists, and geneticists during a nuclear emergency, blob, or some other crisis to keep people alive and fighting.
The A.R.F.S. Dallus lacks Cryopods that many other space ships and stations have, they can be built, but don't come standard. Instead, to heal clone damage you need to wrench the shower in Medbay to cold and feed your patient Cryoxadone.  This isn't a perfect process, but it will heal the clone damage.
As a Medical Doctor, you can eject someone from cloning early by disabling power in genetics. Note that they will suffer more genetic damage from this.
As a Medical Doctor, you can attempt to drain blood from a husk with a syringe to determine the cause. If you can extract blood, it was caused by extreme temperatures or lasers, if there is no blood to extract, you have confirmed the presence of changelings.
As a Medical Doctor, charcoal will not only heal toxin damage dealt by poisons, but will actively remove them.
As a Medical Doctor, you can surgically implant or extract things from people's chests. This can range from putting in a bomb to pulling out an alien larva.
As a Medical Doctor, you must target the correct limb and be on help intent when trying to perform surgery on someone.
As a Chemist, there are dozens of chemicals that can heal, and even more that can cause harm. Experiment!
As a Chemist, some chemicals can only be synthesized by heating up the contents in the chemical heater.
As a Chemist, it is a good idea to carry some sort of combat or panic pill to help you get out of a dangerous situation. A mixture of healing, speed boosting, and stun recovery chemicals can help you immensely.
As a Geneticist, Chester is yours.
As a Geneticist, check the door to your workspace once in a while to see if there's anyone to clone.
As a Geneticist, becoming a hulk makes you capable of dealing high melee damage, stunlocking people, and punching through walls. However, you can't fire guns, will lose your hulk status if you take too much damage, and are not considered a human by the AI while you are a hulk.  On the plus side, you can bet the admins are probably watching you, you lean green mean machine.
As the Virologist, Chester is yours.
As the Virologist, your viruses can range from healing powers so great that you can solo a blob, or diseases so dangerous they can kill the entire crew with airborne spontaneous combustion. Experiment!
As the Research Director, you can repair and even revive AIs by loading them into an intelicard, and then from there into an AI system integrity restorer computer.
As the Research Director, you can lock down cyborgs instead of blowing them up. Then you can have their laws reset or if that doesn't work, safely dismantled.
As a Scientist, you can inject yourself with the mutation toxin extracted from green slimes to become a slime man, who will never be attacked by slimes.
As a Scientist, you can maximize the number of uses you get out of a slime by feeding it slime steroid, created from purple slimes, while alive. You can then apply extract enhancer, created from cerulean slimes, on each extract. It is possible to get 9 times as much out of a slime this way.
As a Scientist, you can disable anomalies by scanning them with an analyzer, then send a signal on the frequency it gives you with a remote signalling device. This will leave behind an anomaly core, which is good for research or the construction of the Phazon mech!
As a Scientist, researchable machine parts can seriously improve the efficiency and speed of machines around the station. In some cases, it can even unlock new functions.
As a Roboticist, you can not only build cyborgs, but also drones, bots, and even mechs!
As a Roboticist, keep an ear out for anomaly announcements. If you successfully get your hands on its core, you can build a phazon mech!
As a Roboticist, you can repair your cyborgs with a welding tool. If they have taken burn damage from lasers, you can remove their battery and replace their wires with a cable coil.
As the AI, you can click on people's names to look at them. This only works if there are cameras that can see them.
As the AI, you can quickly open and close doors by holding shift while clicking them, bolt them when holding ctrl, and even shock them while holding alt.
As a Cyborg, choose your module carefully, as only a roboticist can let you repick it. If possible, refrain from choosing a module until a situation that requires one occurs.
As a Cyborg, you are immune to most forms of stunning, and excel at almost everything far better than humans. However, flashes can easily stunlock you and you cannot do any precision work as you lack hands.
As a Cyborg, you are impervious to fires and heat. If you are rogue, you can release plasma fires everywhere and walk through them without a care in the world!
As a Cyborg, you are extremely vulnerable to EMPs as EMPs both stun you and damage you. The ion rifle in the armory or a traitor with an EMP kit can kill you in seconds.
Remember, please don't vore braindeads!  They might wake up and literally tear their way out of your insides.  That's ignoring the admin bwoink that you'll have incoming.
As the Supermater Shard you can LHSDFG:LI@@(__-02-ihjSH.
As the Chief Engineer, you can rename areas or create entirely new ones using your station blueprints.
As the Chief Engineer, coordinate with your engineering team to repair hull breaches as quickly as possible, so as to prevent too much air from draining.
As the Chief Engineer, your rig suit is significantly better than everybody else's. It boasts better protection, and is completely heat and fire proof.
As an Engineer, the supermatter shard is an extremely dangerous piece of equipment: touching it will vaporize you.
As an Engineer, you can electrify grilles by placing wire "nodes" beneath them: the big seemingly unconnected bulges from a half completed wiring job.
As an Engineer, return to engineering once in a while to check on the singularity and the SMES cells. It's always a good idea to make sure the containment isn't compromised.
As an Engineer, you can power the station solely with the solar arrays. While uninteresting, it is a much safer alternative to the singularity engine.
As an Engineer, you can repair windows by using a welding tool on them while on help intent.
As an Engineer, your construction permit allows you to create a new area, but has only one use.
As an Atmospheric Technician, you can unwrench a pipe regardless of the pressures of the gases inside, but if they're too high they can burst out and injure you!
As an Atmopsheric Technician, you should look into replacing your gas pumps with volumetric gas pumps, as those move air in flat numerical amounts, rather than percentages which leave trace gases.
As an Atmospheric Technician, you are better suited to fighting fires than anyone else. As such, you have access to better firesuits, nanofrost sprays, and a completely heat and fire proof rigsuit.
As the Head of Security, you are expected to coordinate your security force to handle any threat that comes to the station. Sometimes it means making use of the armory to handle a blob, sometimes it means being ruthless during a revolution or cult.
As the Head of Security, you can call for executions or forced cyborg-ing, but may require the Captain's approval.
As the Head of Security, don't let the power go to your head. You may have high access, great equipment, and a miniature army at your side, but being a terrible person without a good reason is grounds for banning.
As the Warden, your duty is to be the watchdog of the brig and handler of prisonners when little is happening, and to hand out equipment and weapons to the security officers when a crisis strikes.
As the Warden, keep a close eye on the armory at all times, as it is a favored strike point of nuclear operatives and cocky traitors.
As the Warden, if a prisoner's crimes are heinous enough you can put them in permabrig or the gulag. Make sure to check on them once in a while!
As a Security Officer, you should communicate and coordinate with your fellow officers using the security channel :s to avoid confusion.
As a Security Officer, you can use handcuffs on orange prisoner shoes to turn them into cuffed shoes. Anyone who wears these will be forced to walk.
As a Security Officer, your sechuds or HUDsunglasses can not only see what job someone works in and their criminal status, but also if they are loyalty implanted or not. Use this to your advantage in a revolution to definitively tell who is on your side!
As a Security Officer, loyalty implants can only prevent someone from being turned into a cultist: unlike revolutionaries, it will not de-cult them if they have already been converted.
As a Security Officer, examining someone while wearing sechuds or HUDsunglasses will let you set their arrest level, which will cause beepsky or any other security bots to chase after them.
As a Security Officer, implanting a gang member the first time will deconvert them, but destroy the implant. You must implant them a second time to protect them from further conversion attempts. Keep in mind that gang members have ways to destroy implants in people!
As the Detective, people leave fingerprints everywhere and on everything. With the exception of white latex, gloves will hide them. All is not lost, however, as gloves leave fibers specific to their kind such as black or nitrile, pointing to a general department.
As the Detective, you can use your forensics scanner from a distance.
The chain of command usually goes as such.  Captain, Lieutenant, Research Director, Chief Medical Officer, Chief Engineer, Head of Security and then Chief of Personnel.  Though, the non Captain/Lieutenant heads are welcome to decide between themselves who is Acting Captain.
Wire the solars you lazy bums!
Just the tip.
Korin did nothing wrong 2556.
As the Chief of Personnel you get a handheld device to use as a cargo console, allowing you to order things on the fly.  As well as call the cargo shuttle!
As a Security Officer remember that on the A.R.F.S. Dallus we don't issue hybrid tazers as standard equipment.  You get an M95.  It's not a soldiers gun, as it has a full length guide rod and tight tolerances.  But it can knock someone out with 4 shots. You start with non-lethal rounds as well, and two magazines in your backpack. Just try not to bump fire it.  Or miss. 
The Supermater shard is not as scary as you think it is.  Then it's hit with an emitter it makes plasma and oxygen and makes them both hot.  In a perfect world, that mix is sucked out of the room and replaced with a cold gas.  That's literally all there is to it.
As the Defense Attorney, try to negotiate with the Warden if sentences seem too high for the crime.  Remember though, sometimes there's just too much evidence against your client. 
As the Lieutenant you are expected to be the Officer on Deck, and the Captains right hand man.  If you want tips to this, you can check out this handy wikihow!  Just ignore the creepy images. http://www.wikihow.com/Be-a-Good-First-Mate By right hand man, we don't mean give the Captain a handjob.
As the Lieutenant you aren't Security, let the Head of Security do his job if you have one.  If not, then feel free.
As the Lieutenant, please don't raid the Captains quarters.  He will likely be very upset with you if he finds out.
As the Chief of Personnel you are the lowest ranking Head of Staff, as such, you have the least responsibilities.  But that doesn't mean you're not a Head of Staff!  You could even be the Officer on Deck!  
As the Chief of Personnel cargo may be your home, but the Cook, Bartender, and Hydroponicist are your responsibility too!  Don't leave them hanging!
As a Passenger you're just kind of hanging around, try not to get in peoples way.  You're not really obligated to help in an emergency either.  It's kind of up to you.
As a Security Secretary it's your job to sit in Security and do all the paperwork.  You're the one on the consoles filling out Security records.  You have a camera console available to you, but don't spend <b>all</b> your time watching it.  
As a Security Secretary you're kind of the face of Security, people can come to you to speak to the rest of Security, seeing as how you're likely to be in one spot and not out and about.
As a Bridge Officer it's your job to be on the bridge checking the consoles to make sure the Captain isn't havning a hard time managing his departments.  Not letting people onto the bridge to swap saliva.
As the Mime, you can place invisible walls that last for a short time to block other people. You can use it in a pinch to delay your pursuer.
As the Clown, if you lose your banana peel, you can still slip people with your PDA! Honk!
Little known fact, the clown gets more viruses for his PDA if he slips you with it.  Henk!
As the Clown, you have the clumsiness genetic defect, and will misfire guns if you try to fire them.
As the Chaplain, your null rod has a lot of functions: it can convert water into holy water, which if spread on the ground prevents wizards from jaunting away, can destroy cultist runes by hitting them, and is a very powerful weapon to boot!
As the Chaplain, your bible can heal people if you hit them with it, but it can also potentially cause brain damage. Use at your own risk!
As the Chaplain, you are much more likely to get a response by praying to the gods than most people. To boost your chances, make altars with colorful crayon runes, lit candles, and wire art.
As a Botanist, you can hack the MegaSeed Vendor to get access to more exotic seeds. These seeds can alternatively be ordered from cargo.
As a Botanist, you can mutate the plants growing in your hydroponics trays with unstable mutagen from chemistry to get special variations.
As a Botanist, you should look into increasing the potency of your plants. This increases the size, amount of chemicals, points gained from grinding them in the biogenerator, and lets people know you are a proficient botanist.
As the Chef, you can load your food into snack vending machines.
As the Chef, you can rename your custom made food with a pen.
As the Chef, any food you make will be much healthier than the junk food found in vendors. Having the crew routinely eating from you will provide minor buffs.
As the Bartender, the drinks you start with only give you the basics. If you want more advanced mixtures, look into working with chemistry, hydroponics, or even mining for things to grind up and throw in!
As a Cargo Technician, you can hack mulebots to make them faster, run over people in their way, and even let you ride them!
As a Cargo Technician, you can order contraband items from the supply shuttle console by de-constructing it and using a multitool on the circuit board, the re-assembling it.
As a Shaft Miner, the west side of the asteroid has a lot more minerals than on the east, but also has monsters there.
As a Shaft Miner, every monster on the west side of the asteroid has a pattern for you to learn, you can exploit this to minimize damage from the encounters.
As a Shaft Miner, you can harvest goliath plates from goliaths and upgrade your rigsuit with it, greatly reducing incoming melee damage.
As a Shaft Miner, you should always turn your jumpsuit sensors to maximum, a fellow miner or cyborg may come to save you if you die.
As a Traitor, the cryptographic sequencer (emag) can not only open doors, but also lockers, crates, APCs and more. It can hack cyborgs, and even cause bots to go berserk. Experiment!
As a Traitor, subverting the AI to serve you can make it an extremely powerful ally. However, be careful of the wording in the laws you give it, as it may use your poorly written laws against you!
As a Traitor, the Captain and the Head of Security are two of the most difficult to kill targets on the station. If either one is your target, plan carefully.
As a Traitor, you can manufacture and recycle revolver bullets at a hacked autolathe, making the revolver an extremely powerful tool.
As a Traitor, you may sometimes be assigned to hunt other traitors, and in turn be hunted by others.
As a Nuclear Operative, communication is key! Use :t or :h to speak to your fellow operatives and coordinate an attack plan.
As a Nuclear Operative, you should look into purchasing a syndicate cyborg, as they can provide heavy fire support, full access, and are immune to conventional stuns.
As a Nuclear Operative, stick together! While your equipment may save you from a lucky disarm or skillful taser bolt, your fellow operative are much better at saving your life: they can drag you away from danger while stunned and provide cover fire.
As a Nuclear Operative, remember that capturing the disk and arming the Nuke is your task, don't just wander off and kill random people!
As a Nuclear Operative, you might end up in a situation where the AI has bolted you into a room. Having some spare C4 in your pocket can save your life.
As a Monkey, you can crawl through air or scrubber vents by alt+left clicking them. You must drop everything you are wearing and holding to do this, however.
As a Monkey, you can still wear a few human items, like backpacks and gas masks, and still have two free hands. Remember that you cannot use guns!
As a Malfunctioning AI, you can shunt to an APC if the situation gets bad. This can allow the clock to tick down long enough for you to win, but keep in mind the crew's pinpointer will point to you when you do this.
As a Malfunctioning AI, you should either order your cyborgs to dismantle the robotics console or blow it up yourself in order to protect them.
As a Malfunctioning AI, you should look into flooding the station with plasma fires to kill off large portions of the crew, letting you pick off the remaining few with space suits who escaped.
As a Malfunctioning AI, never stop hacking APCs as it will continue to reduce the time left to win.
As an Alien, your melee prowess is unmatched, but your ranged abilities are sorely lacking. Make use of corners to force a melee confrontation!
As an Alien, you take double damage from all burn attacks, such as lasers, welding tools, and fires. Furthermore, fire can destroy your resin and eggs. Expose areas to space to starve away any flamethrower fires before they can do damage!
As an Alien, resin floors not only regenerate your plasma supply, but also passively heal you. Fight on resin floors to gain a home turf advantage!
As an Alien, the facehugger is by far your most powerful weapon because of its ability to instantly win a fight. Remember however that certain helmets, such as biohoods or space helmets will completely block facehugger attacks.
As an Alien, you are unable to pick up or use any human items or machinery. Instead, you should focus on sabotaging APCs, computers, cameras and either stowing, spacing, or melting any weapons you find.
As the Blob, you will spawn from your character from between a minute to 5 minutes after the round starts. Use this time to find a safe and well hidden location and evaluate where you will strike!
As the Blob, you can do various sabotage before you spawn, such as spacing the armory or disabling R&D.
As the Blob, keep your core some distance from space, as it is both expensive to expand onto space and easy to be attacked from. Emitter platforms built in space are especially dangerous.
As the Blob, if you invest into the split consciousness ability, it will create a second blob core, from a node, controlled by another player with a different reagent of their own. Coordinate and communicate your attacks and reactions with them!
As the Blob, you can randomly repick your reagent type if the crew has adapted and protected themselves against your current one.
As the Blob, you fight a war of attrition: Take out medbay and fight in chokepoints to prevent continued assaults and coordinated burst damage attacks!
As the Blob, remember that you can only expand onto tiles from cardinal directions, while the crew can attack you diagonally. Fight in narrow corridors or expand and widen across the width of the hallway to force confrontations where you can hit them!
As the Blob, don't neglect the creation of factories. These create spores that carry your reagent and can chase crewmembers far further than you. Spores can also be rallied to swarm the crew and cause panic, and can even take over corpses to create much more dangerous blob zombies!
As a Revolutionary, you cannot convert a head of staff or someone who has a loyalty implant, such as a security officer or those they implant. Implants can however be surgically removed, and do not carry over with cloning. Take control of medbay to keep control of conversions!
As a Revolutionary, cargo bay can be your best friend or your worst nightmare. In the best case scenario you will be able to order a limitless amount of guns and armor, in the worst case scenario security will take control and order a limitless number of loyalty implants to turn your fellow revolutionaries against you.
As a Revolutionary, your main power comes from how quickly you spread. Convert people as fast as you can and overwhelm the heads of staff before they can make it to security.
As a Changeling, the Steal DNA sting from changelings counts for your genome absorb objective, but does not let you change your powers.
As a Changeling, you can absorb someone by grabbing them around the neck and using the Absorb verb; this gives you the ability to rechoose your powers, the DNA of whoever you absorbed, the memory of the absorbed, and some samples of things the absorbed said.
As a Shadowling, you can only have 5 thralls on your side while keeping your human form. After that, you must turn into a shadowling to convert more thralls.
As a Shadowling, remember to communicate with your fellow shadowlings and thralls as you lack the firepower to take on much of anything by yourself until you ascend.
As a Cultist, invest in taking over xenobio, an adamantine golem army can quickly be converted into cultists and constructs.
As a Cultist, do not cause too much chaos before your objective is completed. If the shuttle gets called too soon, you may not have enough time to win.
As a Cultist, your team starts off very weak, but if necessary can quickly convert everything they have into raw power. Make sure you have the numbers and equipment to support going loud, or the cult will fall flat on its face.
As a Cultist, the Blood Boil rune instantly crits all non-cultists who can see it, but has a chance to explode runes near it, incuding itself.
As a Cultist, you can create an army of manifested goons using a combination of the Manifest rune, which creates homunculi from ghosts, and the Blood Drain rune, which drains life from anyone standing on any blood drain rune.
As a Cultist, you can communicate with your fellow cultists with your tome. If that's not available, you can use the Communicate verb at an extreme health cost.
You can deconvert Cultists by feeding them large amounts of holy water.
As a Wizard, you can turn people to stone, then animate it with a staff of animation to create an extremely powerful minion, for all of 5 minutes at least.
As a Wizard, the fireball spell performs very poorly at close range, as it can easily catch you in the blast. It is best used as a form of artillery down long hallways.
As a Wizard, summoning guns will turn a large portion of the crew against themselves, but will also give everyone anything from a pea shooter to a BFG 9000. Use at your own risk!
As a Wizard, the staff of chaos can fire any type of bolts from the magical wands. This can range from bolts of instant death to accidentally healing or reviving someone.
As a Wizard, most spells become unusable if you are not wearing your robes, hat, and sandals.
As a Gangster, you can destroy loyalty implants with an implant breaker, letting you reconvert that person.It actually converts them, past implants or gang status(though not the captain)
As a Gangster, your influence is based on how many areas you have tagged and how many people are wearing your gang's outfit; more areas and more people wearing the outfit will give you more influence.
As a Gang Boss, it is wise to promote at least one other person you think is good or effective, preferably two, as a backup if you get caught by security or enemy gangsters.
Gang outfits are very robust, giving moderate resistances to most direct damage at the cost of stealth.
As an Abductor, you can select where your victims will be sent on the ship control console.
As an Abductor Agent, the combat mode vest has much higher resistance to every kind of weapon, and your helmet prevents the AI from tracking you.
As an Abductor, the baton is set up to allow you to rapidly stun, sleep, and cuff: From stun mode, it cyles to sleep, then to cuff, allowing you to render a target helpless and unable to communicate very rapidly.
As a Ghost, you can see the inside of a container on the ground by clicking on it.
As a Ghost, you can double click on people, bots, or the singularity to follow them.